# Janay Poll
This is a poll application written in nodejs with the express micro-framework. The documentation of this REST API generated by swagger and open API. This application is using MongoDB as database and mongoose as ODM.
<br>
If you want to run this application in your machine then you need to go through some installation process.
<hr>

### Prerequisite:
- Latest NodeJS installed in the machine.
- Npm and Yarn installed in the machine.
### Installation:
<b>1. NodeJS and Package Manager</b><br>
If you do not have nodejs and yarn installed in your machine then you must download the nodejs from [there](https://nodejs.org/en/) and install it. 'Npm' comes with the nodejs. So now you need to install 'Yarn' globally. Run `npm install -g yarn`, it will install the yarn package manager globally.
<br>
<b>2. Git Clone</b><br>
Now clone the code from GitHub. Run the following command in terminal. The command is `git clone https://github.com/JanayAlam/janay-poll-rest.git`. This will create a folder with the project. Now run `cd janay-poll-rest`.
<br>
<b>3. Installing Dependencies</b><br>
Now you need to install the packages. Run `yarn` to install the packages.
<br>
<b>4. Configuring dotenv file</b><br>
Now to run the app you need to configure the '.env' file. You will not find the '.env' file. You need to run `cp deafult.env .env` command in terminal. Now open the project in code editor. Fill the '.env' file with the values of the database username, password, database name, port, host etc.
<br>
<b>5. Run</b><br>
Now you good to run the nodejs application. Run `yarn run dev` to run the appliaction in development mode or run `yarn start` to run the application in production mode. 
<hr>
Documentation of this REST API: `{YOUR_HOST_NAME}:{YOUR_HOST_PORT}/api/v1/api-docs/` for example, `localhost:8080/api/v1/api-docs/`
<b>